A.V. Bobrovsky, A.E. Drobchenko, A.V. Zotov, D.A. Gorokhova, E.D. Chizhatkina,
Development of a Universal Module for Connecting Sensors to the CAN-bus for the Formula Student Electric Car,
Transportation Research Procedia,
Volume 68,
2023,
Pages 665-669,
ISSN 2352-1465,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.trpro.2023.02.092.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352146523000947)
Abstract: The ways to reduce the number of wires suitable for the main control unit were considered. A block diagram of the algorithm of actions of the created special device is proposed, which allows minimizing the number of wires. The format of CAN-messages containing data from all polled sensors and an electrical circuit diagram is presented. A general view of the developed device is presented, which made it possible to reduce the number of signal wires running through the entire vehicle to two pieces.
Keywords: Formula Student; electric car; CAN-bus; block diagram; circuit diagram

Wael Aljabri, Md. Abdul Hamid, Rayan Mosli,
Enhancing real-time intrusion detection system for in-vehicle networks by employing novel feature engineering techniques and lightweight modeling,
Ad Hoc Networks,
Volume 169,
2025,
103737,
ISSN 1570-8705,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.adhoc.2024.103737.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1570870524003482)
Abstract: Autonomous vehicles are built using a variety of electronic control units (ECUs) that communicate over a controller area network (CAN). A CAN enables the communication of data between ECUs to guarantee safety, assist drivers, and perform different functions. Nevertheless, a CAN lacks built-in security measures, which makes it susceptible to cyberattacks. A significant amount of existing research on intrusion detection systems (IDSs) is aimed at enhancing the security of a CAN by identifying and detecting unauthorized packet injections. However, the majority of machine/deep learning-based IDSs have difficulty sufficiently addressing latency. To address this issue, we propose a novel IDS framework that introduces two distinctive features. The first feature is the utility of data entropy, which is dynamically recalculated as new data arrives to capture unpredictable variations in the data payload. The second feature is an anomaly score, combining data entropy and time interval entropy to detect abnormal patterns in CAN communication. We validated the significance of these features using SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) analysis. These features are integrated into a lightweight deep learning-based IDS model, specifically designed for resource-constrained environments. This integration significantly improves detection accuracy and operational efficiency. Our approach is validated using two well-known public datasets, car hacking: attack & defense challenge and car-hacking datasets. It shows significant detection capabilities with accuracies of 0.9946 and 0.9995 and F1 scores of 0.9945 and 0.9995, respectively. Also, our IDS achieves an effectively low inference latency of only 0.17 milliseconds, surpassing the performance of existing machine/deep learning-based IDSs.
Keywords: Vehicular networks; Controller area network; Intrusion detection systems

Mohammed Aledhari, Rehma Razzak, Mohamed Rahouti, Abbas Yazdinejad, Reza M. Parizi, Basheer Qolomany, Mohsen Guizani, Junaid Qadir, Ala Al-Fuqaha,
Safeguarding connected autonomous vehicle communication: Protocols, intra- and inter-vehicular attacks and defenses,
Computers & Security,
Volume 151,
2025,
104352,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2025.104352.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404825000410)
Abstract: The advancements in autonomous driving technology, coupled with the growing interest from automotive manufacturers and tech companies, suggest a rising adoption of Connected Autonomous Vehicles (CAVs) in the near future. Despite some evidence of higher accident rates in AVs, these incidents tend to result in less severe injuries compared to traditional vehicles due to cooperative safety measures. However, the increased complexity of CAV systems exposes them to significant security vulnerabilities, potentially compromising their performance and communication integrity. This paper contributes by presenting a detailed analysis of existing security frameworks and protocols, focusing on intra- and inter-vehicle communications. We systematically evaluate the effectiveness of these frameworks in addressing known vulnerabilities and propose a set of best practices for enhancing CAV communication security. The paper also provides a comprehensive taxonomy of attack vectors in CAV ecosystems and suggests future research directions for designing more robust security mechanisms. Our key contributions include the development of a new classification system for CAV security threats, the proposal of practical security protocols, and the introduction of use cases that demonstrate how these protocols can be integrated into real-world CAV applications. These insights are crucial for advancing secure CAV adoption and ensuring the safe integration of autonomous vehicles into intelligent transportation systems.
Keywords: Connected Autonomous Vehicles; Autonomous vehicles; Attacks; Communication protocols; Defense; CAV security; AV threats

F. Bleicher, D. Biermann, W.-G. Drossel, H.-C. Moehring, Y. Altintas,
Sensor and actuator integrated tooling systems,
CIRP Annals,
Volume 72, Issue 2,
2023,
Pages 673-696,
ISSN 0007-8506,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cirp.2023.05.009.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0007850623001385)
Abstract: The advances in electronics, sensors, actuators, smart materials, computers, and communication technologies led to new and improved mechatronics-based smart tooling systems. This paper reviews the sensors and actuators used in tooling systems. The sensor principles to measure force, displacement, and temperature are explained. Actuators based on piezo, magnetorheological fluid, shape memory alloy, and magnetostrictive principles are discussed. Wireless and wire-based power supply and signal transmission techniques to stationary and rotating tools are described. The integration of sensors, actuators, power supply, and microcontrollers to various tooling systems used in boring, milling, turning, and grinding operations are presented along with their process monitoring and control applications in the industry. It is shown that the sensor-actuator tooling systems improve the accuracy, robustness, and productivity of machining which adds intelligence to the machine tools. The current challenges include widening the operating bandwidth of tooling systems, wireless power and high-speed data transmission, miniaturization of actuators and sensors, and onboard processing using embedded micro-controllers.
Keywords: Machining; Tooling; Sensor; Actuator; Integration; Control; Smart tool

Jesús Abraham Rodríguez-Arellano, Roger Miranda-Colorado, Raúl Villafuerte-Segura, Luis T. Aguilar,
Experimental observer-based delayed control of wheeled mobile robots,
Applied Mathematical Modelling,
Volume 143,
2025,
116038,
ISSN 0307-904X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apm.2025.116038.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0307904X25001131)
Abstract: Wheeled mobile robots are essential mechatronic systems that have attracted attention in different applications in industry and for research. One essential task commanded to a wheeled mobile robot is following a desired reference signal. However, in practical situations, wheeled mobile robots are always affected by disturbances diminishing the closed-loop performance. Hence, this manuscript develops a novel robust control scheme that allows accomplishing a trajectory-tracking task including disturbances. A disturbance observer is designed to compensate for disturbances in the proposed methodology. Also, the delay theory is used to design a proportional-retarded controller that makes the wheeled mobile robot's position and orientation signals converge to their desired references asymptotically. A theoretical development proves the effectiveness of the new scheme. The novel methodology is compared against other robust control methodologies from the literature. Various experiments on a scaled vehicle demonstrate that the novel controller outperforms the other robust controllers, thus representing a viable choice for controlling wheeled mobile robots.
Keywords: Wheeled mobile robot; Delays; Proportional-retarded control; Disturbance observer; Experimental platform

Weiqiang Dong,
Chapter 3 - Sensors for autonomous vehicles,
Editor(s): Muhammad H. Rashid,
Handbook of Power Electronics in Autonomous and Electric Vehicles,
Academic Press,
2024,
Pages 29-43,
ISBN 9780323995450,
https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-323-99545-0.00021-X.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B978032399545000021X)
Abstract: An autonomous vehicle is a comprehensive system that integrates functions such as environmental perception, planning and decision-making, motion control, and multi-level assisted driving. The key environmental perception of automatic driving is used to collect basic information about the surrounding environment. Autonomous vehicles perceive the environment through sensors, which are like the eyes of the car. There are many types of sensors, such as cameras, lidars, radars, and ultrasonic sensors. We discuss the characteristics of these sensors. Due to sensing limits in range, signal characteristics, and operating conditions, it is difficult for a single type of sensor to achieve obstacle detection requirements. Sensor calibration and sensor fusion are therefore required.
Keywords: Sensor; Autonomous vehicle; Data fusion; Lidar; Camera sensor

Muhammad Zohaib Butt, Nazri Nasir, Rozeha Bt A． Rashid,
A review of perception sensors, techniques, and hardware architectures for autonomous low-altitude UAVs in non-cooperative local obstacle avoidance,
Robotics and Autonomous Systems,
Volume 173,
2024,
104629,
ISSN 0921-8890,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.robot.2024.104629.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0921889024000125)
Abstract: Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) can detect and communicate with cooperative obstacles through established protocols. However, non-cooperative obstacles pose a significant threat to UAVs during low-flight operations. These obstacles include static obstacles like buildings, trees, or communication towers and dynamic objects like other UAVs. The application of autonomous UAVs in low-altitude surveillance has motivated research into non-cooperative local obstacle avoidance. This paper provides an overview of such solutions that have been proposed within the last decade. Unlike most literature that limits obstacle avoidance to algorithms, this work provides an in-depth review of obstacle avoidance components, namely the perception sensor, techniques, and hardware architecture of the obstacle avoidance system. This review categorizes the non-cooperative obstacle avoidance techniques into four groups: gap-based methods, geometric methods, repulsive force-based methods, and Artificial Intelligence (AI) based methods. This paper provides a comprehensive resource for researchers working on collision-free surveillance by autonomous UAVs at low altitudes.
Keywords: Non-cooperative obstacle avoidance; Perception sensor; Low-altitude surveillance; Autonomous UAV

Pengxiang Xia, Hengxu You, Jing Du,
Visual-haptic feedback for ROV subsea navigation control,
Automation in Construction,
Volume 154,
2023,
104987,
ISSN 0926-5805,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2023.104987.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0926580523002479)
Abstract: Subsea engineering operations, including subsea inspection, installation and maintenance, heavily rely on the seamless interaction between remotely operated vehicles (ROV) and human operators. Subsea ROV control has always been a great challenge to human operators due to the dynamics of the subsea environment such as uncertainty of turbulence, affected visibility and interference with subsea ecosystems. Compared to engineering work on the ground, subsea engineering tasks are usually finished in a limited vision field with drift and localization problems. However, the traditional ROV feedback system, the live video streaming, cannot provide direct and intuitive perceptions of remote ROV workspace as well as a clear indication of the workspace uncertainties. Therefore, this research proposes a Virtual Reality augmented visual feedback system with haptic simulators to generate immersive, intuitive and effective feedback for human operators. The system can generate visual and haptic feedback as indications of flow conditions based on sensory data. A human subject experiment was performed to verify the effectiveness of this system. The result indicated that this system could significantly assist human operators in precepting the flow conditions in the ROV workspace in a more immersive and intuitive way.
Keywords: Subsea construction; Remotely operated vehicles; Virtual reality; Sensory augmentation

Shehu Lukman Ayinla, Temitope Ibrahim Amosa, Oladimeji Ibrahim, Md. Siddikur Rahman, Abdulrahman Abdullah Bahashwan, Mohammad Golam Mostafa, Abdulrahman Olalekan Yusuf,
Optimal control of DC motor using leader-based Harris Hawks optimization algorithm,
Franklin Open,
Volume 6,
2024,
100058,
ISSN 2773-1863,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fraope.2023.100058.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S277318632300052X)
Abstract: Direct Current (DC) motor is considered a very critical component of various industrial drive equipment. This is due to their unique advantages including reasonable cost, speed-torque characteristics, ease of control, etc. While most DC motor drive applications often employ PID controllers to regulate the speed of the machine, selecting the optimal design parameters for the controllers used in these applications often posed a serious challenge. Moreover, as the complexity of the industrial process increases, the need for precise speed and position tracking becomes necessary. This current study proposes a novel Leader-based Harris Hawks Optimization (LHHO) algorithm for the design of Proportional-Integral-Derivative (PID) and Fractional Order Proportional-Integral-Derivative (FOPID) controllers to achieve optimal speed regulation of DC motors. The LHHO algorithm is an innovative meta-heuristic algorithm that draw inspiration from the cooperative hunting behavior and leadership prowess of the Harris Hawks called the “seven pounds”. While several error functions were tested in this study, the integral of time multiplied absolute error (ITAE) has been adopted as the error function for obtaining the parameters of PID and FOPID controllers using the LHHO algorithm. Through quantitative evaluations and comparisons with existing techniques, the proposed controllers (LHHO-PID and LHHO-FOPID) have revealed significant improvements in key performance metrics, including rise time, settling time, and maximum overshoot during transient periods when ITAE is used as the error function. Furthermore, the stability response and robustness analyses were carried out by varying the parameters of the DC motor under eight scenarios, which confirmed competitive performance in system response and transient behavior.
Keywords: DC motor; Leader Harris Hawks optimization (LHHO); FOPID controller; ITAE; Meta-heuristic algorithms

Alejandro Garcés-Ruiz, Walter Gil-González, Oscar Danilo Montoya,
Stability analysis for an ad-hoc model predictive control in DC/DC converters with a constant power load,
Results in Engineering,
Volume 22,
2024,
102262,
ISSN 2590-1230,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rineng.2024.102262.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2590123024005176)
Abstract: This paper presents a stability analysis for a horizon-one continuous control set model predictive control (MPC) for DC/DC converters connected to a constant power loads (CPLs). Different MPC approaches have been previously presented, each tailored to a specific type of converter but without a formal stability proof, failing to ensure robust performance across various operating conditions. Unlike previous works in the scientific literature, our approach is general and applicable to any second-order DC/DC converter, including the Buck, Boost, Buck-Boost, and non-inverting Buck-Boost converters. A formal stability analysis was conducted using the proposed approach, initially for the open-loop system and subsequently for the closed-loop system. The trace-determinant or triangle criterion was employed for discrete-time systems in R2. Three analyses were conducted to evaluate the performance of the proposed MPC, showing the stability issues of DC/DC converters with CPLs in open loops. This work proposes solutions using the suggested technique. Numerical simulations utilizing the Boost and Buck-Boost converters demonstrate that, in open-loop operation, even minor perturbations in the CPL value can destabilize the behavior of electrical variables. In addition, simulations show that, for the Boost converter, the settling time was about 1.5ms. Meanwhile, in the Buck-Boost case, it was about 5ms. Standardized control indicators, such as the integral absolute error criterion (IAE), the integral of the time-multiplied absolute error criterion (ITAE), and the integral of the time-multiplied square error criterion (ITSE), confirm the effective performance of the proposed one-step MPC. The values range between 1.521×10−2 and 4.591×10−6 for the Boost converter, and between 6.607×10−3 and 3.366×10−6 for the Buck-Boost topology.
Keywords: One-step model predictive control; Second-order DC/DC converters; Discrete bi-linear model; Asymptotic stability

Vladimir Sousa Santos, Juan J. Cabello Eras, Mario J. Cabello Ulloa,
Evaluation of the energy saving potential in electric motors applying a load-based voltage control method,
Energy,
Volume 303,
2024,
132012,
ISSN 0360-5442,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2024.132012.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360544224017869)
Abstract: This paper studies the viability of energy savings in electric motors by adjusting the voltage according to load in motors that operate under significant load variations during their work cycles. The laboratory test program used a 1.1 kW electric motor to compare its measured efficiency operating without voltage control with the load-based voltage control method results. A neural network was developed, and a time series generator was used to model the motor and estimate the results of applying the method in its useful life in the load behavior of three operating regimes. The results show an energy saving potential of 2 %–5.2 % using the load-based voltage control method in motors operating with a load factor of less than 40 % during the simulated motor life cycle for the three operating regimes. Also, the economic feasibility of implementing the load-based voltage control method was evaluated on three industrial electric motors. Results indicated potential annual savings between $1227 and USD 1,549, with a projected investment payback period of less than three and a half years.
Keywords: Electric motors; Energy efficiency; Life cycle; Load factor; Voltage control

Felix A. Dreger, Gerhard Rinkenauer,
Evaluation of different feedback designs for target guidance in human controlled robotic cranes: A comparison between high and low performance groups,
Applied Ergonomics,
Volume 116,
2024,
104204,
ISSN 0003-6870,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apergo.2023.104204.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0003687023002429)
Abstract: Labour shortages and costly operator training are driving the need for digital on-board robotic crane operator support in forestry and construction. This simulator study investigated the effects of sonification (auditory, pitch/loudness) and continuous visual (brightness/size) feedback on aiming movements with a robotic crane for low and high performers. The feedback was designed non-linear and linear. Thirty-six participants controlled a robotic crane bimanually using joysticks across 320 movements. Performance and skill indicators (movement time, accuracy, trajectory, smoothness) as well as satisfaction, and usefulness were assessed. Low-performing participants showed higher movement accuracy, particularly with non-linear pitch feedback compared to visual feedback. High performers exhibited no significant performance improvement in movement time, accuracy, or smoothness. There was no effect of linear or non-linear mapping of the feedback. Additionally, perceived satisfaction was lower with auditory than visual feedback. These results suggest that real-time auditory feedback can enhance operator accuracy whereas acceptance remains challenging.
Keywords: Machine operator; Concurrent visual feedback; Sonification

Carlos E. Castañeda, Antonio Valderrabano-Gonzalez, Hossam A. Gabbar, Vijay K. Sood,
High-precision speed control of induction motors using a multi-pulse voltage source converter and advanced observer-based strategies,
e-Prime - Advances in Electrical Engineering, Electronics and Energy,
Volume 11,
2025,
100884,
ISSN 2772-6711,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.prime.2024.100884.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2772671124004613)
Abstract: This paper presents a speed motor control using a precise Electric Motor Drive System (EMDS) utilizing an 84-pulse Voltage Source Converter (VSC). The development of the VSC signal requires two critical parameters: Vmodule, representing the combined amplitude of the 3-phase signals, and a variable frequency adjusted via a Phase-Locked Loop (PLL) within each sample cycle. To estimate the non-measurable variables (λαr, λβr and TL), sliding mode, asymptotic, and Luenberger observers are employed and compared among themselves. The control algorithm is based on sliding mode with an equivalent control strategy, ensuring robust performance under various operating conditions. This control algorithm transforms the plant to be controlled to the non-linear block control form by using error-tracking dynamics. This is to obtain the sliding manifold and to apply the equivalent control strategy. The effectiveness of the proposed system is validated through a set of simulations conducted in Matlab/Simulink, demonstrating its capability to achieve high precision in motor drive applications.
Keywords: Sliding mode observer; Asymptotic observer; Luenberger observer; VSC; EMDS

Akshata Shendge, Rajendra Singh, Kashif I.B.H. Ansari, Kishita Pakhrani,
Development of an unmanned aerial vehicle for remote live streaming on web dashboard,
Materials Today: Proceedings,
Volume 77, Part 3,
2023,
Pages 848-854,
ISSN 2214-7853,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matpr.2022.11.492.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214785322073485)
Abstract: As the prominence of autonomous aerial vehicles continues to rise globally, the ability of surveillance carried out remotely is likely to become a key aspect. In large spaces, random security checks are performed by security guards and are quite inefficient since on-foot monitoring is extremely non-productive and slow. This paper proposes a remote surveillance solution integrated into an aerial vehicle that performs random inspections and streams the live video on a web dashboard which is a faster and more reliable solution. The paper presents how to design and implement an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) with surveillance capabilities wherein the live stream will be remotely accessible on any device connected to the same network. The main purpose of this drone is to transmit live data/video to a web dashboard and hence run inferences to analyse the data. A custom-made drone is integrated with Raspberry Pi with a Universal Serial Bus (USB) camera. An attempt to stream drone video feeds on local devices has been made in this field. The proposed framework operates in the robot operating system (ROS) integrated with the gazebo simulator and is designed to enable the software to communicate with the hardware. Two primary methodologies are utilised; simulations and experimental. The expected outcome should satisfy the need to view the drone’s live video feed on a web dashboard for remote surveillance and computer vision application. At the resolution of 640 × 480, the latency in the live stream varied from 1 to 3 s with 10 frame rates per second. The analysis of the flight logs of the drone suggests that it meets the desired stability required for smooth video streaming. The total estimate calculated to implement this system is Rs. 70,000 including contingencies and spare parts required for experimentation. The proposed prototype appears to be a viable solution for security solutions required by multiple large space owners on the study's findings.
Keywords: ROS; Computer vision; OpenCV; Drones; Gazebo

Narendra Gariya, Sanjeev Kumar, Amir Shaikh, Brijesh Prasad, Hemant Nautiyal,
A review on soft pneumatic actuators with integrated or embedded soft sensors,
Sensors and Actuators A: Physical,
Volume 372,
2024,
115364,
ISSN 0924-4247,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sna.2024.115364.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0924424724003571)
Abstract: Soft robotics has attained significant attention in recent years due to their infinite degree of freedom, adaptability, and safer interaction with humans and objects in various applications, such as robotics, biomedical devices, search and rescue operations, and wearable technology. However, the soft pneumatic actuator (SPA) is one of the most commonly and frequently utilized actuators in soft robotics due to its higher output at lower energy consumption. Further, an important development was the embedding/integration of soft and flexible sensors within the SPAs. This review article provides a comprehensive review of the frequently utilized SPA designs (McKibben, Pneu-Nets, and material jamming-based actuators), soft sensors (strain, pressure, temperature, tactile, flex, optical, and magnetic sensors), and SPAs with integrated or embedded soft sensors. Further, various emerging trends and breakthroughs in the SPA-sensors integration along with the limitations and challenges are discussed. Finally, it is found that there is an enormous amount of potential for revolutionizing the robotic and associated industries through the integration or embedding of soft sensors into SPAs. Even though there has been a lot of progress, there are still various challenges that need to be resolved and are provided in the future work section.
Keywords: SPA; Soft sensors; Embedded sensors; McKibben actuator; Pneu-Nets; Material jamming

Kan Luo, Yu Chen, Min Fan, Jianxing Li, Wu Wang,
A portable, low-cost real-time imaging slab gel electrophoresis system for rapid separation of nucleic acids,
Sensors and Actuators B: Chemical,
Volume 440,
2025,
137905,
ISSN 0925-4005,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.snb.2025.137905.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S092540052500680X)
Abstract: Background
Slab gel electrophoresis (SGE) remains fundamental to biomedical research but faces limitations for point-of-care testing due to its large footprint, operational inefficiencies, and lack of real-time imaging capabilities.
Methods
We developed a portable, real-time imaging SGE system featuring a compact and modular design. The system integrates a 3D-printed SGE tank with embedded quartz glass plates that facilitate fluorescence imaging and efficient heat dissipation, ensuring stable operation under high electric fields without significant temperature rise. A uniform LED panel provides consistent, high-quality excitation, while a smartphone-based detection module with an optical filter enables real-time monitoring of fluorescent bands across a large imaging area (100 × 60 mm²).
Results
The SGE system offers efficient passive heat dissipation and enables sensitive fluorescence-based DNA detection, with a detection limit as low as 0.07 ng/μL and a linear range of 0.08–10.00 ng/μL. It supports a throughput of 12 samples per run. Its compact size (108 × 108 × 60 mm3), light weight (0.7 kg), and low cost (∼ $65) ensure both portability and affordability. We have successfully applied the prototype to screen genes (CERK1 and CEBiP), achieving a reduced electrophoresis runtime of 12 min at 100 V while enabling real-time band tracking.
Significance
Our portable SGE system addresses critical limitations of traditional systems through its integrated design, large imaging area, high efficiency, and cost effectiveness. The open source platform enables both accessibility in developing regions and extensibility to diverse molecular detection applications. The established engineering approaches offer a generalizable reference for developing similar devices.
Keywords: Slab gel electrophoresis (SGE); Portable system; Real-time imaging; Fluorescence-based detection; DNA analysis

Sixun Chen, Noboru Noguchi,
Remote safety system for a robot tractor using a monocular camera and a YOLO-based method,
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture,
Volume 215,
2023,
108409,
ISSN 0168-1699,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2023.108409.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0168169923007974)
Abstract: Japanese agriculture faces serious problems caused by labor shortages due to both a decline in the agricultural population and the aging of the remaining agricultural population. Japanese government is actively promoting the use of agricultural robots to address labor shortages issues. According to the Safety Assurance Guidelines for Agricultural Machinery Autonomous Navigation issued by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries of Japan. Human monitoring is necessary during the work of agricultural robots. A remote safety system was developed to support the monitoring of a multi-robot tractor. It uses a monocular camera as an image-input device and a deep-learning method YOLO model as a detector for humans and tractors. The system acquires image data at the robot's local end and sends it to the remote end for an image analysis; it then calculates the relative position of the detected target to the robot tractor. The Q-Q plot and t-test were employed to enhance the accuracy of human positioning. The safety results of the system's analysis are sent back to the tractor for execution and to generate an alert to the human monitor. Human positioning with a relative error of 2.6% at 15 m was obtained. Every target was correctly detected in the 2022–2023 field experiment. These results demonstrate that the remote safety system can support the human monitoring of a robot tractor.
Keywords: Robot tractor; Remote control; Monocular camera; Deep learning; Obstacle detection

Jianqi Zhang, Xu Yang, Wei Wang, Ioannis Brilakis, Diana Davletshina, Hainian Wang,
Robust ELM-PID tracing control on autonomous mobile robot via transformer-based pavement crack segmentation,
Measurement,
Volume 242, Part C,
2025,
116045,
ISSN 0263-2241,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.measurement.2024.116045.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0263224124019304)
Abstract: Pavement crack tracing is paramount to missions encompassing automated crack sealing for road maintenance. However, existing methods still face several challenges, including the incapability to precisely extract crack trajectories and the challenge of tuning control parameters within intricate backgrounds. To address these limitations, the ViT-S2T network and the ELM-PID control system are proposed for crack tracing. Specifically, the ViT-S2T consists of two branches. The transformer-based feature extraction module (TFEM) integrates multi-head attention mechanism and multi-layer perceptron to capture global contextual crack semantic features. The incoherent segmentation masks (ISM) employs a binary classifier to predict the coarsest irrelevant mask and further performs up-sampling fusion of higher-resolution features. Moreover, the Neural-PID control method is designed to track crack trajectories, combining Extreme Learning Machines (ELM) and Proportional Integral Derivative (PID). The ELM-PID controller utilizes a three-layer backpropagation neural network and proposes the ELM model for adaptive adjustment by predicting the tuning parameters of PID. This framework is applied to real-time visual tracing for edge AI. Extensive tests performed on three arduous datasets of DeepCrack, CFD, and S2TCrack, achieving a precision of 82.76% and mAP@0.5 of 75.63% and speed of 0.0513 m/s, demonstrating the superior and robust nature of our approach in pavement crack tracing.
Keywords: Pavement crack tracing; ELM-PID control; Extreme learning machines; Transformer-based crack segmentation; Embedded deep learning; Autonomous mobile robot

Ashish Shukla, Robert Ross, Bishakh Bhattacharya, Alex Stumpf,
Autonomous water sampling and quality monitoring in remote locations: A novel approach using a remote-controlled boat,
HardwareX,
Volume 22,
2025,
e00634,
ISSN 2468-0672,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ohx.2025.e00634.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2468067225000124)
Abstract: Water quality varies widely across the globe due to numerous sources of contamination. This disparity emphasizes the urgent need to achieve UN Sustainable Development Goal 6, which aims to ensure universal access to clean water and sanitation. Traditional water monitoring approaches often come with high costs, limited time fidelity, and the absence of territorial dimensionality (often at fixed points). These approaches rely on either manual sampling or stationary buoy platforms, which are labour-intensive and cannot be easily accessed to retrieve water samples (for stationary systems). This paper presents an inexpensive, modified remote-controlled (RC) boat based water monitoring system that is open source, compact, robust, highly adaptable and capable of traversing various riverine environments to collect water and perform samples anywhere within the water body. The solution enhances data quality, facilitates laboratory microbiological investigation, and provides combined water quality data and water samples for comprehensive analysis. The platform comprises a remotely operated boat equipped with lab-grade sensors (pH, dissolved oxygen, conductivity, ORP, temperature) and a sonar depth sensor. It efficiently collects high-resolution spatio-temporal water-quality data with a high accuracy RTK-GPS system and allows eight separate water samples to be collected at different locations. The sensors were validated using lab-grade equipment, followed by successful field testing that confirmed their accuracy and reliability in real-world conditions.
Keywords: Unmanned Surface Vehicle (USV); Remote water monitoring; Autonomous water sampling; Microbial analysis; Geotemporal water analysis

Gholamreza Khodamipour, Saeed Khorashadizadeh, Mohsen Farshad,
Adaptive formation control of leader–follower mobile robots using reinforcement learning and the Fourier series expansion,
ISA Transactions,
Volume 138,
2023,
Pages 63-73,
ISSN 0019-0578,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.isatra.2023.03.009.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0019057823001179)
Abstract: In this paper, a formation controller for leader–follower mobile robots is presented based on reinforcement learning and the Fourier series expansion. The controller is designed based on the dynamical model in which permanent magnet direct-current (DC) motors are included as actuator. Thus, motor voltages are the control signals and are designed based on the actor–critic strategy which is a well-known approach in the field of reinforcement learning. Stability analysis of formation control of leader–follower mobile robots using the proposed controller verifies that the closed-loop system is globally asymptotically stable. Due to the existence of sinusoidal terms in the model of mobile robots, the Fourier series expansion has been selected to construct the actor and critic, while previous related works utilized neural networks in actor and critic. In comparison with neural networks, the Fourier series expansion is simpler and involves the designer in fewer tuning parameters. In simulation studies, it has been assumed that some follower robots can play the role of leader for the other follower robots behind it. Simulation results show that there is no need to use large number of the sinusoidal terms in the Fourier series expansion and just the first three terms can overcome uncertainties. In addition, the proposed controller reduced the performance index of tracking errors considerably in comparison with radial basis function neural networks (RBFNN).
Keywords: Formation control; Reinforcement learning; Actor–critic strategy; The Fourier series expansion; Leader–follower mobile robots

Fernando Cañadas-Aránega, José C. Moreno, José L. Blanco-Claraco,
A PID-based control architecture for mobile robot path planning in greenhouses,
IFAC-PapersOnLine,
Volume 58, Issue 7,
2024,
Pages 503-508,
ISSN 2405-8963,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ifacol.2024.08.112.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2405896324008346)
Abstract: This article presents a control strategy for an Ackermann mobile robot designed for greenhouse operation, based on a cascade control mechanism. It controls both, (i) an inner loop, based on PID, for two motors, and (ii) a classic Pure Pursuit control for the outer loop. In addition, a feedforward control strategy is proposed to address the issue of the natural variable terrain in greenhouses in southern Spain. Path following will be evaluated using a 2D model of the experimental greenhouse to obtain coordinates that will be assessed in simulation. Open-loop tests were conducted on a real agricultural robot prototype, AGRICOBIOT II, designed and built at the University of Almeria.
Keywords: Greenhouse; mobile robot; PID Control; Cascade Control; Feedforward Control; Pure pursuit

Wissem Kharzi, Nacera Meziane, Hadjer Zairi, Malika Kedir Talha, Lotfi Madaoui, Oussama Kerdjidj,
Real-time embedded ECG anomaly detection system with comparative analysis of CWT-based transfer learning performance across electrode types,
Biomedical Signal Processing and Control,
Volume 109,
2025,
107898,
ISSN 1746-8094,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bspc.2025.107898.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1746809425004094)
Abstract: Electrocardiogram (ECG) is an essential tool to diagnose cardiac anomalies. However, the inherent variability of ECG signals contaminated by the presence of noise and artifacts during extended monitoring may lead to misdiagnoses. Consequently, conventional gel electrodes worsen the issue by causing skin irritation and degrading signal quality due to intermittent contact loss. This study introduces a real-time dry electrodes based ECG diagnostic assistance system to improve patient comfort and maintain signal quality. It integrates transfer learning models with continuous wavelet transform (CWT) techniques to build a robust recognition model to extracts more detailed information than traditional time domain representations. This investigation provides a comprehensive benchmarking analysis, assessing various CWT wavelets and their impact on the performance of deep learning architectures, including InceptionV3, VGG16, VGG19, Xception, and EfficientNetB0. Two datasets support the analysis: the publicly available PTB Diagnostic ECG dataset, which includes normal and pathological classes, and a proprietary dataset designed to detect hardware anomalies. Finally, the findings show that the VGG19 model achieved an accuracy of 99.87% when deployed on a Jetson Nano board, demonstrating effective training and validation processes while minimizing latency and computational overhead.
Keywords: Transfer learning; Dry electrodes; Continuous wavelet transforms; Real-time systems; Anomaly detection; Edge computing

Bike Zhu, Jun He, Feng Gao,
Stiffness optimization design of wheeled-legged rover integrating active and passive compliance capabilities,
Mechanism and Machine Theory,
Volume 202,
2024,
105758,
ISSN 0094-114X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mechmachtheory.2024.105758.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0094114X2400185X)
Abstract: Compliance capability is one of the most important properties of suspension systems for rough-terrain robots. This imposes specific requirements on system stiffness design, which directly determines the platform's performance in response to external stimuli. To address the challenge of stiffness optimization design in active and passive compliant systems, this paper proposes a novel and practical method for optimizing stiffness for a terrain-adaptive wheel-legged rover. Firstly, the kinematic model of this multi-degree-of-freedom platform is established. Secondly, the deformation capability coefficient, load capacity coefficient, energy efficiency coefficient, and dynamic stability coefficient are derived as performance indices to assess the behavior of the system. By establishing the relationship between joint configuration variation and system stiffness, stiffness parameters could be evaluated through these performance indices. Ultimately, the global optimum stiffness parameters are selected from the refined intersection of the individual performance optimal domains. Thirdly, the optimum parameters are calculated and applicability verified numerically. The designed parameters are verified experimentally on a wheeled-legged rover. The experimental results demonstrate that the proposed algorithm can find the parameter combination that achieves optimal system performance, thereby enhancing the system's terrain adaptability.
Keywords: Wheeled-legged rover; Performance analysis; Kinematics; Active and passive compliance

Alem Čolaković,
IoT systems modeling and performance evaluation,
Computer Science Review,
Volume 50,
2023,
100598,
ISSN 1574-0137,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cosrev.2023.100598.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1574013723000655)
Abstract: The continuous increase of IoT applications leads to a vast amount of data that needs to be transmitted, stored, and processed. Many IoT applications rely on the Cloud infrastructure to handle these specific application demands. However, the integration of IoT and Cloud poses challenges such as network delays, throughput, energy consumption, reliability, etc. Therefore, a new computing concept is required to support emerging IoT applications. These new concepts include fog computing, edge computing, mobile edge computing, mobile cloud computing, and cloudlets. They use various approaches to distribute resources, processes, and services among IoT system architecture layers. The challenge is to decide which offloading system is the best for a specific use case that emphasizes the IoT system modeling issue. In this paper, a model for the formal description of IoT systems is presented. In addition, an analytical evaluation method was proposed to design these systems using the corresponding architecture, technologies, protocols, and integration model to optimize performance. The proposed approach facilitates and simplifies the selection of the corresponding model for the system architecture. This approach enables an efficient method for performance optimization based on offloading processes (load balancing). Also, this paper provides some insights into specific emerging issues and ideas to be addressed by future research.
Keywords: Internet of Things (IoT); Cloud computing; Fog computing; Edge computing; System modeling; Performance evaluation; Resource allocation; Quality of services (QoS)

Celal Onur Gökçe, Mahmut Esat İpek, Mehmet Dayıoğlu, Rıdvan Ünal,
Parameter estimation and speed control of real DC motor with low resolution encoder,
Results in Control and Optimization,
Volume 19,
2025,
100549,
ISSN 2666-7207,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rico.2025.100549.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2666720725000359)
Abstract: In this study, parameter estimation and speed control of a real brushed Direct Current (DC) motor are conducted. For parameter estimation, a popular iterative optimization algorithm, namely Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO), is used. The motor is assumed to have first-order dynamics, which are a reasonable assumption for most DC motors in practical use and two parameters representing the mathematical model of the model are estimated. The step response of the open-loop system is used as data for the parameter estimation algorithm. Using the estimated parameters simulations are conducted for closed loop Proportional-Integral (PI) control. Experiments on a real brushed DC motor are also conducted for closed-loop PI control of rotor speed. Speed of motor is measured using single channel low resolution optical encoder. Due to low resolution of speed sensor, precision of the whole system is limited and oscillations are observed in speed output measured. Controlling low-resolution sensor systems is important for two reasons. First, cost of the system is quite low compared with high resolution sensors. Second, for some real systems, especially with small physical dimensions, high resolution sensors may not be available at all. So, one of the important aspects of this study is to analyze low resolution sensor systems. As a closed loop controller, simple but popular PI controller is chosen to show the compatibility of experimental results with simulations. Oscillations around reference value are less than 10% in both simulations and experiment results. In real experiments, oscillations are slightly higher due to low resolution of encoder which is expected due to quantization error. Several parameters are used for controller and results are reported and discussed in corresponding sections.
Keywords: Real brushed DC motor; Low resolution optical encoder; Parameter estimation; Particle swarm optimization; PI control

Wenwen Li, Fanghao Huang, Zihao Chen, Zheng Chen,
Automatic-switching-based teleoperation framework for mobile manipulator with asymmetrical mapping and force feedback,
Mechatronics,
Volume 99,
2024,
103164,
ISSN 0957-4158,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mechatronics.2024.103164.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957415824000291)
Abstract: Teleoperation technology has become a feasible solution for the mobile manipulator to carry out complex tasks in remote environments, with its advantages of mobility and manipulability. However, due to the high redundancy of the mobile manipulator, its application in the field of teleoperation inevitably suffers from the problem of heterogeneity. This paper proposed an automatic-switching-based teleoperation framework with asymmetrical mapping and force feedback. Namely, special coefficients are designed to automatically switch the motion states of the remote robot, so that the traditional manual-based switching strategy can be replaced. Based on these coefficients, the hybrid asymmetrical mapping including the position–velocity and position–position modes can be achieved, as well as the force feedback considering the switching between the remote mobile platform and the manipulator, and thereby accomplishing the automatic switching during the teleoperation of the mobile manipulator. The comparative experiments and user study were carried out on the teleoperation platform. The experimental results show that this proposed teleoperation framework can reduce the time needed to complete the tasks and decrease the decision-making pressure of the operator, thus demonstrating the feasibility of the proposed framework.
Keywords: Mobile manipulator; Teleoperation; Heterogeneity; Automatic switching; Asymmetrical mapping; Force feedback

Oluwaseun Kayode Ajayi, Shengzhi Du, Syeda Nadiah Fatima Nahri,
A review of haptic technologies for hardware-in-the-loop development,
Sensors and Actuators Reports,
Volume 9,
2025,
100331,
ISSN 2666-0539,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.snr.2025.100331.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2666053925000499)
Abstract: Retrofitting haptic technology into existing systems requires a thorough understanding of how haptic technology works. It is essential to select appropriate methods and devices to avoid accidents and losses. A comprehensive literature search was done to investigate haptic technologies over the years to understand their adoption and application. In the current work, the hardware-in-the-loop is of utmost interest, however, the control and software were briefly discussed. The sensors, actuators, and materials used to design haptic devices were explored. Furthermore, specific applications like the intended research, their drawbacks, and possible solutions are presented. However, flexible materials seem to be more versatile in their applications. This may be due to the flexibility, size, and ease of integration. The development of multimodal sensors and feedback was identified to improve haptic system performance.
Keywords: Haptic technologies; Sensors; Actuators; Hardware-in-the-loop

Yingxuan Zhang, Qi Jiang, Feiwen Wang, Jie Wang, Maosheng Ye, Dongxuan Li,
Tac-scope: An endoscope integrated with soft sensor for real-time tactile feedback,
Measurement,
Volume 235,
2024,
114953,
ISSN 0263-2241,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.measurement.2024.114953.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0263224124008388)
Abstract: In order to improve the safety of endoscopic surgery, a flexible endoscope with real-time tactile feedback (Tac-scope) has been proposed. It integrates a soft sensor at the end embedded with fiber Bragg grating (FBG) to detect the contact force with the lumen wall, while retaining the original function of the endoscope. In this article, theoretical analysis, simulated analysis, and experiments have been implemented, obtaining the mapping from FBG wavelength shifts to the force magnitude and orientation. To verify the real-time detection and feedback capability, tests are conducted on the bronchial model. The results show an average reduction of 60% in contact force and 30% in operation time. The linearity of Tac-scope force detection is 0.991, the repeatability error is 6.46%, the resolution is 8.8 mN, the sensitivity is 0.693 nm/N, the average error is 4.4%, and the error of orientation detection is 3.57%. Such merits indicate that the proposed Tac-scope has huge potential in endoscopic surgeries.
Keywords: Endoscope; Tactile sensor; Force detection; Orientation detection; Tactile-vision feedback

Koki Ito, Jin Nakazato, Romain Fontugne, Manabu Tsukada, Esaki Hiroshi,
A multipath redundancy communication framework for enhancing 5G mobile communication quality,
Computer Communications,
2025,
108157,
ISSN 0140-3664,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comcom.2025.108157.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0140366425001148)
Abstract: As networks increasingly become the backbone of modern society, the demands placed on them by various applications have become more complex. In particular, the demand for high-capacity, low-latency services such as real-time streaming is increasing every year. Although 5G has been deployed to meet these needs, its effectiveness can vary significantly by location and time, and sometimes falls short of requirements. Traditionally, much of the research to improve communication stability has focused on TCP-based systems, which do not translate well to real-time UDP streaming applications. To address the above challenges, we propose a multipath redundant communication framework designed to improve the quality of real-time media streaming. This framework has been tested using multipath redundant communication over two mobile networks with a moving vehicle in an urban environment. Using a real-time streaming application based on WebRTC, our framework demonstrates a significant reduction in packet loss and an increase in bitrate, outperforming existing multipath redundant communication systems without interfering with the application’s congestion control mechanisms.
Keywords: 5G; Multipath redundant communication; Mobile network; Vehicular communication; UDP streaming

Rubén Nieto, Felipe Machado, Jesús Fernández-Conde, David Lobato, José M. Cañas,
Open-source ROS-based simulation for verification of FPGA robotics applications,
Microprocessors and Microsystems,
Volume 113,
2025,
105143,
ISSN 0141-9331,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.micpro.2025.105143.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0141933125000110)
Abstract: FPGAs are increasingly incorporated in many high-end robotics applications, often involving computer vision and motor control. However, functional verification of FPGA designs is labor-intensive, time-consuming, and consequently expensive. Moreover, validation of complex systems, such as robots, poses even further challenges because neither the external interactions can be easily modeled with traditional testbenches nor the robot’s response can be adequately observed and ascertained. This work presents a new methodology that validates the robot’s behavior in a realistic simulated environment before transferring the design to the physical robot and the onboard FPGA. This methodology allows integral, fast, and flexible debugging cycles of robotics applications by integrating the functional simulation of the processing unit (FPGA) with the simulation of the robot, its environment, and their mutual interconnections. The Verilator simulation tool is used for fast Verilog/SystemVerilog verification and simulation. ROS, the standard robotics middleware, and Gazebo 3D robotics simulator are used for realistic robot simulation, including a robust physics engine. We have implemented several open-source software extensions to interconnect the Verilog circuit with the simulated ROS sensors and actuators. This methodology’s utility and correctness have been assessed by developing a complete proof-of-concept FPGA-based robotics application in which a commercial robot follows a colored object using its onboard camera and differential drive motors. This work establishes the foundations for developing and testing complex robot FPGA-based modules more efficiently and flexibly.
Keywords: Field-programmable Gate Array (FPGA); Robotics; Open-source; Simulation; Robot Operating System (ROS)

Qinglei Ji, Jakob Jansson, Mikael Sjöberg, Xi Vincent Wang, Lihui Wang, Lei Feng,
Design and calibration of 3D printed soft deformation sensors for soft actuator control,
Mechatronics,
Volume 92,
2023,
102980,
ISSN 0957-4158,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mechatronics.2023.102980.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957415823000363)
Abstract: Soft actuators made from compliant materials are superior to conventional rigid robots in terms of flexibility, adaptability and safety. However, an inherent drawback of soft actuator is the low actuation precision. Implementing closed loop control is a possible solution, but the soft actuator shape can hardly be measured directly by commercially available sensors, which either are too stiff for integration or cause performance degradation of the actuator. Although 3D printing has been applied to print bendable sensors from conductive materials, they either have larger stiffness than the soft actuator or are made from specially designed materials that are difficult to reproduce. In this study, easily accessible commercial soft conductive material is applied to directly 3D print soft sensors on soft actuators. Different configurations of the printed sensors are studied to investigate how the sensor design affects the performance. The best sensor configuration is selected to provide shape feedback using its changing resistance during deformation. Compared with a commercial flexible bending sensor, the printed sensor has less influences on the soft actuator performance and enjoys higher shape estimation accuracy. Closed loop shape control of the actuator using feedback from the 3D printed sensor is then designed, implemented and compared with the control results using image feedback. A gripper consisting of three individually controlled soft actuators demonstrates the applications of the soft sensor.
Keywords: Closed loop control; Soft actuator; 3D printing; Soft sensors

Miguel Barón, Luis Diez, Mihail Zverev, José R. Juárez, Ramón Agüero,
On the performance of Zenoh in Industrial IoT Scenarios,
Ad Hoc Networks,
Volume 170,
2025,
103784,
ISSN 1570-8705,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.adhoc.2025.103784.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1570870525000320)
Abstract: Robust and efficient communication frameworks have become essential for the advancement of manufacturing and industrial processes in the era of Industry 4.0. This paper presents a comprehensive performance analysis of Eclipse Zenoh, a promising solution for the Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT). The analysis is conducted using a real testbed built with Raspberry Pi devices, comparing Eclipse Zenoh’s performance against the widely used Message Queuing Telemetry Transport (MQTT) protocol. The study assesses Eclipse Zenoh’s capabilities in terms of latency, as well as its reliability and congestion control mechanisms over various network topologies, using both Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) and User Datagram Protocol (UDP). The results indicate that Eclipse Zenoh offers significant advantages in specific scenarios, making it a compelling choice for IIoT applications. Additionally, this paper contributes to a deeper understanding of Eclipse Zenoh’s underlying principles and its communication capabilities, positioning it as a versatile and efficient solution for modern industrial environments.
Keywords: Zenoh; MQTT; Reliability; Congestion control; IIoT; Latency; Middleware

Shuwan Yu, Xiaoang Liu, Qianqiu Tan, Zitong Wang, Baohua Zhang,
Sensors, systems and algorithms of 3D reconstruction for smart agriculture and precision farming: A review,
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture,
Volume 224,
2024,
109229,
ISSN 0168-1699,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2024.109229.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0168169924006203)
Abstract: Perceiving the shape and structure of the real three-dimensional world through sensors and cameras is indispensable across various domains. The 3D reconstruction technology is dedicated to realizing this ideal process. 3D reconstruction technology serves as a transformative tool, enriching our ability to perceive the genuine shape and stereo structure of objects and scenes in the real world. Through combining advanced sensors, image processing algorithms and 3D reconstruction methods, it captures the shape and structural information of targets from multiple perspectives and dimensions, and creates highly realistic 3D models in the virtual environment. With the rapid modernization of agriculture and ongoing technological progress, the demand for more efficient and precise management and monitoring methods in agricultural production is increasing. Traditional observation and measurement methods face challenges such as low efficiency and incomplete data. 3D reconstruction technology provides more accurate and intelligent management tools for smart agriculture. This paper provides a detailed introduction to the research progress based on 3D reconstruction technology in smart agriculture. It delves into the characteristics and development of various sensors and sensing systems, discussing various methods to implement 3D reconstruction technology. Different from applications in industrial environments, agricultural environments and crops are usually complex and variable, and consideration of diverse factors is required for the selection of suitable sensors and reconstruction methods. Therefore, several aspects of applications are summarized, such as agricultural robotics, crop phenotyping, livestock, and the food industry. Finally, the challenges and potential future trends of 3D reconstruction in agriculture are given.
Keywords: 3D reconstruction; Smart agriculture; Precision farming; Machine vision; Agricultural robotics; Crop phenotyping

Ryosuke Uemura, Takumi Asakura,
Cross-modal feedback of tactile and auditory stimuli for cyclists in noisy environments,
Sensors and Actuators A: Physical,
Volume 380,
2024,
116031,
ISSN 0924-4247,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sna.2024.116031.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0924424724010252)
Abstract: In recent years, with the increasing use of bicycles for environmental and health benefits, the importance of the feedback for cyclists is increasing. Moreover, as bicycles account for 23 % of all traffic accidents in 2022, improving bicycle safety is a crucial challenge. This study aimed to explore methods for enhancing safety and improving feedback to cyclists through auditory and tactile signals. Experiments were conducted using a cycling simulator and cross-modal reaction tests of tactile and auditory signals to simulate bicycle riding under actual external noise environments. The accuracy of the recognition and reaction times for both tactile and auditory signals were evaluated in situations with simulated road traffic sounds. Subsequently, the effectiveness of cross-modal feedback was assessed, optimal signal conditions were examined, and the relationship between variations in environmental noise and optimal auditory signals for cyclists was discussed. The results showed that cross-modal feedback led to faster reaction times, while the recognition accuracy of auditory signals varied depending on environmental noise levels. The present findings suggest the potential of cross-modal feedback to enhance cyclist safety, particularly when optimized for environmental conditions and individual perception.
Keywords: Bicycle; Cross-modal feedback; Road traffic sound; Reaction time; Cyclist

Ankit Vashisht, Geeta Chhabra Gandhi, Sumit Kalra, Dinesh Kumar Saini,
Hybrid robot navigation: Integrating monocular depth estimation and visual odometry for efficient navigation on low-resource hardware,
Computers and Electrical Engineering,
Volume 124, Part A,
2025,
110375,
ISSN 0045-7906,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compeleceng.2025.110375.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0045790625003180)
Abstract: Robotic navigation is a complex task requiring accurate localization, environmental perception, path planning, and control of actuators. Traditional navigation systems rely on pre-built maps or map building techniques such as simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM). However, these approaches unnecessarily map the entire environment, including all objects and obstacles, making them computationally intensive and slow, particularly on resource-constrained devices. While mapless navigation methods address some of these issues they are often too impulse-based, lacking reliance on planning. Recent advances in deep learning have provided solutions to many navigation paradigms. In particular, Monocular Depth Estimation (MDE) enables the use of a single camera for depth estimation, offering a cost-effective alternative to selective mapping. While these approaches effectively address navigation challenges, they still face issues related to scalability and computational efficiency. This paper proposes a novel hybrid approach to robot navigation that combines map-building techniques from classical visual odometry (VO) with maples techniques that uses deep learning-based MDE. The system employs an object detection model to identify target locations and estimate travel distances, while the MiDaS MDE model provides relative depth to detect the nearest obstacle and navigable gaps after image segmentation removes floor and ceiling areas, enhancing the robot's perception of free spaces. Wheel odometry (WO) and VO determine the robot's position and its metric distance from detected nearest obstacle. An instantaneous Grid map is then formed with robot’s position, navigable gap, nearest obstacle and the goal location. Path planning is conducted using a modified A-star (A*) algorithm, followed by path execution with a Proportional Integral Derivative (PID) controller. The system’s performance is evaluated at both the modular level and the final system level using various metrics, such as Mean Absolute Error (MAE), Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE), and inference time for depth estimation, and navigation success rate across different robot speeds for final navigation performance. Additionally, a Friedman statistical test is conducted to validate the results. Experimental results show that the proposed approach reduces memory and computational demands, enabling real-world navigation on low-resource hardware. To our knowledge, this is the first integration of MDE-based mapless navigation with VO-based map-building, presenting a novel direction for research.
Keywords: Simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM); Monocular depth estimation (MDE); Visual odometry (VO); Performance optimization (PO); Sustainable computation (SC)

Zuber Basha Shaik, Samineni Peddakrishna,
Design and implementation of electric vehicle with autonomous motion and steering control system using single board computer and sensors,
Results in Engineering,
Volume 25,
2025,
103995,
ISSN 2590-1230,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rineng.2025.103995.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2590123025000830)
Abstract: Autonomous motion and steering systems are crucial in electric vehicle (EV) technologies, enabling enhanced safety, efficiency, and user convenience. However, the integration of modern sensors and controllers and actuator mechanisms remains a significant challenge to achieving autonomous functionality in EVs. This study presents the design, integration, and implementation of an EV control system that operates in both manual and autonomous modes. In manual mode, the driver maintains complete control via the ignition key, emergency checks, and mechanisms for selecting direction and speed. Transitioning to autonomous mode involves integrating an autonomous vehicle electronic control unit (AV-ECU), which manages the existing electric vehicle electronic control unit (EV-ECU) as a subordinate unit. A Raspberry Pi 5 system-on-chip (SoC) serves as the master controller, coordinating motion and steering commands. In autonomous mode, the system leverages a range of sensors and actuators for navigation and control. The LIDAR-Lite v3HP sensor facilitates obstacle detection and distance measurement for real-time speed adjustments. A rotary encoder tracks steering angle and rotation direction, ensuring accurate maneuverability. Speed control is achieved through pulse width modulation (PWM) signals that adjust power to the motor, allowing for speeds varying from 0 to 40 km/h. Responsive steering control is provided by a worm gear motor system, managed by a motor driver that interfaces with the single-board computer. The system's effectiveness was validated in a controlled campus environment, where it successfully enabled basic autonomous transportation. The incorporation of advanced sensors, electronic control units, actuators, and real-time data collection demonstrated the practical application of autonomous driving technologies, emphasizing the system's safety, efficiency, and potential for implementation in real-world scenarios.
Keywords: Electric vehicle; Autonomous vehicle; Autonomous electric vehicle; Electronic control unit; System on chip

Angelo Ugenti, Rocco Galati, Giacomo Mantriota, Giulio Reina,
Analysis of an all-terrain tracked robot with innovative suspension system,
Mechanism and Machine Theory,
Volume 182,
2023,
105237,
ISSN 0094-114X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mechmachtheory.2023.105237.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0094114X23000113)
Abstract: Tracked robots are gaining interest in the current context of off-road mobile robotics, especially in soft-terrain applications, because they offer a large contact area with the ground, which provides better traction than wheels or legs. In this paper, a novel passively articulated tracked robot is introduced. On each side, Polibot features a rubber track wrapped around four independently suspended road wheels, an idler wheel, and the sprocket, and it can adapt to many kinds of terrain. An inverse kinematic model for the proposed architecture is also developed to predict the system configuration given the terrain topography. The analytical model is based on constraint equations and a quasi-static force analysis, and it is validated against results obtained from the real prototype, showing good agreement. It can also be used to evaluate the influence of the many suspension design parameters and operating conditions, proving that it can be a useful tool for the proper setup of the robot.
Keywords: All-terrain robots; Tracked robots; Passive articulated suspension system; Robot inverse kinematics

C. Friedrich, F. Schlüter, S. Ihlenfeldt,
Spatial hybrid/parallel force control of a hexapod machine tool using structure-integrated force sensors and a commercial numerical control,
Mechatronics,
Volume 94,
2023,
103007,
ISSN 0957-4158,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mechatronics.2023.103007.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957415823000636)
Abstract: Structure-integrated force measurement in hexapod structures or kinematics offers great potential for spatial process force control in six degrees of freedom. Although force control has been studied for many years, research questions remain unanswered, especially when regarding parallel kinematic machine tools with numerical control and integrated sensors. This contribution summarizes the technology of structure-integrated force sensing in hexapod machine tools and develops two approaches to use the measured signals for direct hybrid/parallel force control. For different use-cases, such as teach-in or synchronous force/position control with variable task frame, different approaches of set-point specification and injection of manipulated values are studied from a practical point of view. As a result of the work, the feasibility of the force control with structure-integrated sensors on a commercial CNC can be confirmed through appropriate experiments. Furthermore, the realized G-Code integration represents a practical solution for programming force-controlled machine tools in an easy and concise way from the NC programme.
Keywords: Machine tools; Force measurement; Force control; Robotics; Hexapod; Parallel kinematic machines; Sensor integration

Houda Meddeb, Zouhaira Abdellaoui, Firas Houaidi,
Development of surveillance robot based on face recognition using Raspberry-PI and IOT,
Microprocessors and Microsystems,
Volume 96,
2023,
104728,
ISSN 0141-9331,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.micpro.2022.104728.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0141933122002575)
Abstract: The advancement in recent technologies such as artificial intelligence (AI), computer vision (CV) and internet of things (IoT) extends to various areas, especially surveillance systems that require real-time facial recognition processing to ensure safety. In fact, mobile robots are widely used in surveillance systems to perform dangerous tasks that humans cannot. In this context, we propose a prototype of a low-cost mobile surveillance robot based on Raspberry PI 4 which can be integrated into any industrial area. This intelligent robot checks about the presence of intruder using IoT and face recognition technology. The system is equipped with passive infrared (PIR) sensor and camera to record live streaming video and photos, which are transmitted to the room control via IoT. Thanks to facial recognition algorithms, the system can distinguish between company personnel and intruders. Haar Cascade Classifier and LBPH (Local Binary Pattern Histogram) algorithm are used in image processing to detect and identify individuals. When a stranger is detected, alert notifications and email with captured image are sent to the room control via IoT. A web interface was developed to remotely control the designed robot via a WiFi connection. This application allows monitoring of a wide area and can improve the robot's perception system. Performance evaluations will be conducted to demonstrate the effectiveness and robustness of the face recognition algorithms used in this framework.
Keywords: AI; Face recognition; IoT; Raspberry PI; Robot; Surveillance

Jie Pan, Fan Chen, Dan Han, Shuai Ke, Zhiao Wei, Han Ding,
Adaptive process parameters decision-making in robotic grinding based on meta-reinforcement learning,
Journal of Manufacturing Processes,
Volume 137,
2025,
Pages 376-396,
ISSN 1526-6125,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmapro.2025.02.005.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1526612525001276)
Abstract: In robotic grinding, the variability of workpiece characteristics, uneven machining allowances and nonlinear tool wear collectively pose challenges for consistent material removal. To address these dynamic grinding conditions and achieve high-accuracy material removal, this paper presents an adaptive decision-making model for grinding process parameters based on the meta-reinforcement learning. The proposed approach accurately adjusts grinding process parameters under a wide range of coating characteristics, multiple grinding tool types and progressive tool wear, with few-shot training samples. First, we develop an enhanced proximal policy optimization algorithm with better experience (PPOBE) to optimize process parameters for a specific grinding task, improving material removal accuracy. Subsequently, building on the PPOBE framework, we integrate model-agnostic meta-learning (MAML) to form MAML-PPOBE algorithm, enabling fast adaptation across heterogeneous grinding tasks while preserving high accuracy. Comprehensive experiments on 16 distinct grinding tasks demonstrate a 51.4 %–68.9 % improvement in material removal deviation relative to the MAML, PPOBE, SAC and FLC algorithms, respectively. This paper presents an adaptive parameters decision-making method with high accuracy in changing and complex grinding process.
Keywords: Adaptive grinding process parameters; Meta-reinforcement learning; Material removal accuracy; Robotic grinding; Intelligent manufacturing

Fabian Graf, Thomas Watteyne, Michael Villnow,
Monitoring performance metrics in low-power wireless systems,
ICT Express,
Volume 10, Issue 5,
2024,
Pages 989-1018,
ISSN 2405-9595,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.icte.2024.08.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2405959524000912)
Abstract: Application Performance Monitoring (APM) is key for ensuring computer systems perform well. While most APM tools target servers and networking infrastructure, here we focus on APM for devices with strict resource constraints: extremely limited in terms of power, memory and bandwidth. We tailor this article to be both a survey and a tutorial. In the survey part, we investigate APM approaches for low-power wireless networks, with a particular focus on Time Synchronized Channel Hopping solutions, as they are well-suited for critical industrial applications. We survey performance metrics characterizing the network health condition and show how, to capture the health of a network universally, it is important to constantly monitor hardware-related, network-related and network-wide metrics. We present a collection of metrics that serves as a checklist for the design of an APM system, describe related work on APM concepts suitable for low-power wireless system, and provide core concepts for collecting, exporting and processing performance metrics. The tutorial part consists of a hands-on example of running commercial APM and networking solutions. We use the active APM framework from Memfault, which periodically creates heartbeats including the performance metrics. We run this framework on top of the SmartMesh IP protocol stack, a commercial product by Analog Devices that offers wired-like high reliability and a decade of battery lifetime, and integrate it with the Zephyr operating systems. This tutorial allows the readership to experiment with a complete ready-to-deploy mote-to-cloud APM chain.
Keywords: Application Performance Monitoring (APM); Constrained devices; Memfault; SmartMesh IP; Zephyr

Gaosheng Luo, Chuankun Luo, Shimin Gao, Jingxiang Xu, Xuteng Bao, Zhiqiang Ma, Zhe Jiang,
Research on passive adaptive wall-climbing cleaning and inspection robot of marine cylindrical steel structure based on conical magnetic adsorption wheel,
Ocean Engineering,
Volume 314, Part 2,
2024,
119676,
ISSN 0029-8018,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.oceaneng.2024.119676.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0029801824030142)
Abstract: The marine growth cleaning and structural defect detection of steel structures of offshore underwater facilities are essential parts of the inspection and maintenance of offshore platforms. However, a majority part of underwater structures of offshore facilities, such as offshore wind turbines, Jacket platforms, Jack-up platforms, etc., are cylindrical structures. Compared with the planar structures, cylindrical structures have large curvature, and less supporting area, and therefore put forward higher requirements for the performance of the attached surface working robot. This paper proposes a wall-climbing cleaning robot that can move freely on the wall of cylindrical steel structures and passively adapt to cylindrical structures with various curvatures and diameters. According to the structural characteristics of the robot, a static failure model is established to analyze the different instability forms of the robot and the minimum critical magnetic adsorption force is determined. To ensure the minimum mass and the maximum magnetic adsorption force of the conical magnetic adsorption wheelsets, the effects of air gap and cone angle on the performance of the conical magnetic adsorption wheelsets were analyzed parametrically, and the optimal structural size was obtained. Finally, the mobility and capability of the robot on the surface of the different diameter cylindrical structures has been validated through prototype experiments.
Keywords: Wall-climbing cleaning and inspection robot; Cylindrical steel structure; Passive adaptive; Conical magnetic adsorption wheelsets; Prototype experiments

Steve Tchassem Nkengne, Buris Peggy Ndemanou, André Chéagé Chamgoué, Dianorré Tokoue Ngatcha, Hilaire Bertrand Fotsin, Sifeu Takougang Kingni,
Dynamic analysis and chaos control in heat-affected non-smooth brushless DC motors with load torque through genetic algorithms,
Nonlinear Science,
Volume 2,
2025,
100010,
ISSN 3050-5178,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nls.2024.100010.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S3050517824000108)
Abstract: The objective of this paper is to study the dynamics, microcontroller validation, and annihilation of chaos by using the genetic algorithms (GAs) to optimize parameters in the heat-affected non-smooth air-gap Brushless direct current motor (HNBDCM) with load torque. Stability analysis of steady-state of HNBDCM with load torque (HNBDCMLT) results in three steady states with stable and unstable branches in three considered planes. Hopf bifurcation, coexisting attractors, antimonotonicity, chaotic bubble characteristics, five different shapes of chaotic characteristics, and periodic characteristics are encountered in HNBDCMLT. These dynamical characteristics encountered during the numerical simulations are attested by the microcontroller execution of HNBDCMLT. Chaos annihilation in HNBDCMLT through parameter optimization thanks to the GAs is demonstrated because by optimizing some parameters of HNBDCMLT via GAs, the chaotic characteristics encountered in HNBDCMLT converged to one of its three steady states.
Keywords: Brushless direct current motor; Heat losses and load torque; Chaotic and coexisting characteristics; Microcontroller execution; Annihilation of chaos; Genetic algorithms

Zhigang Huang, Quan Liu, Fei Zhu,
Hierarchical reinforcement learning with adaptive scheduling for robot control,
Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence,
Volume 126, Part D,
2023,
107130,
ISSN 0952-1976,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.engappai.2023.107130.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0952197623013143)
Abstract: Conventional hierarchical reinforcement learning (HRL) relies on discrete options to represent explicitly distinguishable knowledge, which may lead to severe performance bottlenecks. It is possible to represent richer knowledge through continuous options, but reliable scheduling methods are lacking. To design an available scheduling method for continuous options, in this paper, the hierarchical reinforcement learning with adaptive scheduling (HAS) algorithm is proposed. Its low-level controller learns diverse options, while the high-level controller schedules options to learn solutions. It achieves an adaptive balance between exploration and exploitation during the frequent scheduling of continuous options, maximizing the representation potential of continuous options. It builds on multi-step static scheduling and makes switching decisions according to the relative advantages of the previous and the estimated continuous options, enabling the agent to focus on different behaviors at different phases of the task. The expected t-step distance is applied to demonstrate the superiority of adaptive scheduling in terms of exploration. Furthermore, an interruption incentive based on annealing is proposed to alleviate excessive exploration during the early training phase, accelerating the convergence rate. Finally, we apply HAS to robot control with sparse rewards in continuous spaces, and develop a comprehensive experimental analysis scheme. The experimental results not only demonstrate the high performance and robustness of HAS, but also provide evidence that the adaptive scheduling method has a positive effect both on the representation and option policies.
Keywords: Hierarchical reinforcement learning; Exploration and exploitation; Scheduling; Sparse reward

Zhen Deng, Shengzhan Zhang, Yuxin Guo, Hongqi Jiang, Xiaochun Zheng, Bingwei He,
Assisted teleoperation control of robotic endoscope with visual feedback for nasotracheal intubation,
Robotics and Autonomous Systems,
Volume 172,
2024,
104586,
ISSN 0921-8890,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.robot.2023.104586.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0921889023002257)
Abstract: Endoscopic operation is one of the most difficult parts of nasotracheal intubation (NTI), a surgical procedure used to secure the airway of a patient. Due to the requirement of eye–hand coordination, manual operation of a flexible endoscope is challenging, even for an experienced surgeon. To enhance intubation efficiency, this paper developed a master–slave robotic nasotracheal intubation system (RNIS) for endoscopic operation. Movements in three degrees of freedom of the endoscope are controlled by the RNIS. An assisted teleoperation control strategy is designed to assist the operator in remotely controlling the pose, i.e., position and orientation, of the endoscope tip via a joystick. To ensure the efficiency of intubation, visual feedback assistance is hereby proposed, which fine-tunes the orientation of the endoscope tip as needed. The proposed system and methods are experimentally validated on a motion simulator and a phantom. The results demonstrated that the master–slave RNIS can successfully insert the flexible endoscope into the trachea of a phantom through the nasal cavity.
Keywords: Surgical robotics; Robotic endoscope; Teleoperation control; Visual feedback assistance; Nasotracheal intubation

Feudjio Ghislain, Saha Tchinda Beaudelaire, Romain Atangana, Tchiotsop Daniel,
Real-time deep learning for multi-label retinal disease diagnosis with embedded system,
Computational and Structural Biotechnology Reports,
Volume 2,
2025,
100035,
ISSN 2950-3639,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.csbr.2025.100035.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2950363925000067)
Abstract: Background
Ophthalmological consultations are essential for the early detection of retinal pathologies. The development of advanced diagnostic devices that combine portability, ease of access, and energy efficiency offers significant benefits, especially in rural or peri-urban areas, which often struggle with limited medical resources and time constraints.
Method
In this study, we develop a classification platform for various retinal diseases using a Raspberry Pi 4 board. The system relies on a lightweight deep learning model based on convolutional neural networks (CNNs). To enhance the model's efficiency, we integrate biorthogonal wavelet transforms, which facilitate the effective extraction of relevant features from the input images. This approach reduces computational complexity while maintaining the quality of the extracted information. The model, optimized for real-time deployment, was trained on a dataset containing 4303 retinal images, representing four classes of pathologies.
Results
The proposed embedded model achieves an accuracy of 0.9806 across the four classes of pathologies collected from the two public databases ODIR (Ocular Disease Intelligence Recognition) and RFMiD (Retinal Fundus Multi-Disease Image Dataset).
Conclusions
Compared to several state-of-the-art methods published to date, the outstanding performance of the proposed embedded system demonstrates its potential as a valuable tool for clinicians to diagnose various ocular diseases in underprivileged healthcare settings.
Keywords: Embedded board; Real-time classification; Lightweight CNN model; Wavelet transforms

Faren Huo, Tai Wang, Fei Fang, Cong Sun,
The influence of tactile feedback in In-vehicle central control interfaces on driver emotions: A comparative study of touchscreens and physical buttons,
International Journal of Industrial Ergonomics,
Volume 101,
2024,
103586,
ISSN 0169-8141,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ergon.2024.103586.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169814124000428)
Abstract: Touchscreen in-vehicle central control interfaces are rapidly replacing traditional physical buttons. However, the differences in the effects of tactile feedback between touchscreens and physical buttons on driver emotions are unclear. This study used a simulated driving experiment to investigate the effects of tactile feedback mode and intensity on driver emotion using the Self-Assessment Manikin (SAM). The results showed that tactile feedback mode, intensity, and difficulty of non-driving-related tasks (NDRTs) significantly affected drivers' emotional states. Touchscreen tactile feedback elicited a more positive emotional state than physical button tactile feedback. The intensity of touchscreen tactile feedback is positively correlated with driver emotional valence. However, higher-intensity physical button feedback decreases driver emotional valence, particularly when drivers are engaged in complex NDRTs, and the difference due to feedback intensity is insignificant. The study's results could help automakers intervene by designing tactile feedback to enhance the emotional experience of the driver's in-vehicle interaction interface.
Keywords: Driving; Emotion; In-vehicle central control interface; Physical button; Tactile feedback; Touchscreen

Faheem Iqbal, Moneeb Gohar, Hanen Karamti, Walid Karamti, Seok-Joo Koh, Jin-Ghoo Choi,
Use of QUIC for AMQP in IoT networks,
Computer Networks,
Volume 225,
2023,
109640,
ISSN 1389-1286,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comnet.2023.109640.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1389128623000853)
Abstract: The use of IoT devices is expanding every day in today’s environment. An interoperable protocol like AMQP is essential for supporting multiple IoT use cases and interconnecting IoT devices from different vendors. Many IoT applications are sensitive to delays, which researchers are working to avoid as much as possible. One of the main sources of the delay is the underlying transport layer protocol, such as TCP or UDP. TCP is more reliable than UDP, although it is slower due to the three-way handshake and the use of TLS for security. QUIC, a new transport layer protocol standardized by the Internet Engineering Task Force, combines the finest aspects of UDP and TCP to provide quick and reliable communication. We use the Go programming language to integrate AMQP 1.0 with QUIC to reduce latency and improve battery life. The Docker tool is used to containerize the AMQP 1.0 Broker, Sender, and Receiver implementations, and various scenarios are tested in the NS3 simulator. The findings demonstrated that even though Round Trip Time was 71% higher for QUIC, using QUIC at the transport level improved Startup Latency and Total Communication Time by 62% and 22%, respectively. The proposed scheme (AMQP 1.0 over QUIC) transported 3.5 times more data than the existing scheme (AMQP 1.0 over TCP), but QUIC’s throughput was 7 times higher, which shorten the communication time and 31% less energy was consumed. Furthermore, metrics including Packet Loss, Delay, and Channel Bandwidth were used to compare the two schemes. The results showed that, with the exception of the low channel bandwidth scenario, the proposed scheme consistently outperformed the existing scheme.
Keywords: QUIC; AMQP; AMQP 1.0; Internet of Things (IoT); Performance analysis; Docker; TCP; Energy analysis; Network layer

David García Villaescusa, Mario Aldea Rivas, Michael González Harbour,
Response-time analysis of mesh-based many-core systems,
Journal of Systems Architecture,
Volume 134,
2023,
102762,
ISSN 1383-7621,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sysarc.2022.102762.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1383762122002478)
Abstract: Scheduling models can be used to evaluate whether a particular system is able to meet its timing constrains. In many-core processors, with tens to hundreds of processors in the same chip, the analysis of the timing behavior needs to include the communications network used to exchange messages between the different processors. This paper presents a schedulability model for many-core systems based on a 2D mesh network-on-chip and store-and-forward switching with a limitation on the maximum link utilization rate that makes the analysis tractable. The model has been applied to the Epiphany many-core processor which has 16 cores connected by a 4 × 4 2D mesh. The analysis results have been tested on the real hardware by executing examples with synthetic task workloads. Those tasks are executed in a micro-kernel RTOS that we have developed. We also describe synchronization mechanisms to send messages between the tasks, and we analyze their timing behavior, so that they can be included in the analysis model.
Keywords: Real-time; Scheduling; Modeling; Network-on-chip; Many-core; MAST; Parallella; Epiphany

Nelson Luis Manuel, Nihat İnanç, Murat Lüy,
Control and performance analyses of a DC motor using optimized PIDs and fuzzy logic controller,
Results in Control and Optimization,
Volume 13,
2023,
100306,
ISSN 2666-7207,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rico.2023.100306.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S266672072300108X)
Abstract: Based on the no-free-lunch theorem, researchers have been proposing optimization algorithms for solving complex engineering problems. This paper analyzes the performance of five metaheuristics: Equilibrium Optimizer (EO), Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO), Teaching-Learning-Based Optimization (TLBO), Differential Evolution (DE), and Genetic Algorithm (GA) in fine-tuning the gains of a Proportional-Integral-Derivative (PID) to control the speed of a DC motor. The selected metaheuristics, in addition to being from distinct classes, are well established in their respective groups. The methods and findings of this study can be summarized in three phases. First, the mathematical model of the DC motor is deduced. Second, detailed descriptions of the aforementioned algorithms are presented. Furthermore, the structures of the applied controllers are discussed. Third, comparisons based on statistical indicators and analyses in the time and frequency domains, in addition to robustness and load disturbance tests, are performed. The results revealed that if a sufficient number of runs is given for each metaheuristic, despite being in different runs, all algorithms are able to propose the same optimal gain values. TLBO presented the highest speed, while GA and DE were the slowest in finding optimal values. Additionally, the results were compared with the Opposition-Based Learning Henry Gas Solubility Optimization (OBL/HBO)-based PID, reported to have better results than some previously published works on this topic, and a Fuzzy Logic Controller (FLC). The five optimized controllers obtained approximately the same results and outperformed the OBL/HGO-based PID, but the FLC was superior compared to the metaheuristic-based PIDs.
Keywords: DC motor speed control; Metaheuristic algorithms; Equilibrium optimizer; Particle swarm optimization; Teaching-learning-based optimization; Differential evolution; Genetic algorithm

Marcos Talau, Thiago A. Herek, Mauro Fonseca, Emilio C.G. Wille,
Improving TCP performance over a common IoT scenario using the Early Window Tailoring method,
Computer Networks,
Volume 234,
2023,
109875,
ISSN 1389-1286,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comnet.2023.109875.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1389128623003201)
Abstract: The Internet of Things (IoT) is already a reality in homes, transforming the home network into a complex composition of different equipment where each one has its own attributes in terms of TCP protocol variants, transmission speed, reliability and delay. In home network scenarios where IoT devices are used, it is common to have a 802.11 environment with several devices sharing the same Access Point (AP). When TCP is used in this environment its performance is affected by many things, such as wireless link losses, queue saturation on access points, and fairness. To improve the TCP performance in these scenarios, this paper presents a new version of the Early Window Tailoring (EWT) approach. The EWT-IoT do not require any modification in the TCP, and it does not require that all routers in the path use the same Active Queue Management (AQM), the use in the AP is sufficient. To evaluate its performance, comparison tests against drop-tail, RED, ARED and EWA were performed. The EWT-IoT proved to be effective in congestion control, achieving greater performance than the other approaches, reducing the transfer time, having a superior goodput, maintaining a satisfactory fairness, and presenting no losses. Also, the EWT-IoT allowed the existence of a number of flows on average 65.2% better than its best competitor and 71.3% better when no AQM scheme was used.
Keywords: IoT; AQM; TCP; Congestion control; Receiver’s advertised window

Puneet Kumar, Behnam Dezfouli,
quicSDN: Transitioning from TCP to QUIC for southbound communication in software-defined networks,
Journal of Network and Computer Applications,
Volume 222,
2024,
103780,
ISSN 1084-8045,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnca.2023.103780.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1084804523001996)
Abstract: In Software-Defined Networks (SDNs), the control plane and data plane communicate for various purposes such as applying configurations and collecting statistical data. While various methods have been proposed to reduce the overhead and enhance the scalability of SDNs, the impact of the transport layer protocol used for southbound communication has not been investigated. Existing SDNs rely on Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) to enforce reliability. In this paper, we show that the use of TCP imposes a considerable overhead on southbound communication, identify the causes of this overhead, and demonstrate how replacing TCP with Quick UDP Internet Connection (QUIC) protocol can enhance the performance of this communication. We introduce the quicSDN architecture to enable southbound communication in SDNs via the QUIC protocol. We present a reference architecture based on the standard, most widely-used protocols by the SDN community and show how the controller and switch are revamped to facilitate this transition. We compare, both analytically and empirically, the performance of quicSDN versus the traditional SDN architecture and confirm the superior performance of quicSDN. Our empirical evaluations in different settings demonstrate that quicSDN lowers communication overhead and message delivery delay by up to 82% and 45%, respectively, compared to SDNs using TCP for their southbound communication.
Keywords: Software-defined networks; Observability; Dynamic configuration; Overhead; Latency; Management; Agents

Qiuyu Lu, June Li, Kai Yuan, Kaipei Liu, Ming Ni, Jianbo Luo,
UDP-RT: A UDP-based reliable transmission scheme for power WAPS,
Computer Networks,
Volume 236,
2023,
110012,
ISSN 1389-1286,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comnet.2023.110012.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1389128623004577)
Abstract: It is expected that TCP/IP networks take the place of point-to-point fiber channels for the communications of WAPS. In TCP/IP networks, TCP does not guarantee real-time while UDP does not guarantee reliability. An efficient method is demanded for WAPS to guarantee the real-time and reliability of messages transmitted in TCP/IP networks under congestion states. To address the challenge, we propose a UDP-based reliable transmission (UDP-RT) scheme, which achieves low latency by adopting UDP at the transport layer and high reliability by adding the mechanisms of error correction, error detection, resending and timeout retransmission at the application layer. The error correction mechanism employs TPCs, which has low complexity and good performance at high code rate, to correct errors in a message. A blocking rule for TPCs considering the features of communication channels and messages of WAPS is presented. The error detection mechanism is for detecting whether all errors in the message are corrected by the error correction mechanism. The resending mechanism and the timeout retransmission mechanism (optional) is for ensuring the reliability in the two cases of message loss and not all errors corrected. Additionally, algorithms for UDP-RT are presented, and their correctness are validated through experiment. Our analyses demonstrate that the proposed scheme can meet the real-time requirements of WAPS businesses when network congesting and has higher reliability than the TCP transmission scheme and other UDP transmission schemes.
Keywords: Power wide-area protection; Network communication; Error correction; Real-time performance; Reliability

Dohyun An, Hyeontae Joo, Hwangnam Kim,
Enabling low-latency digital twins for large-scale UAV networks using MQTT-based communication framework,
ICT Express,
Volume 11, Issue 2,
2025,
Pages 264-269,
ISSN 2405-9595,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.icte.2025.01.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2405959525000013)
Abstract: In recent developments within large-scale Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) networking, ensuring the accuracy and timeliness of real-time status updates has become increasingly critical. This paper proposes a new Centralized Message Queuing Telemetry Transport (MQTT)-based Communication framework(CMQC) specifically designed to improve real-time data transmission within a simulated large-scale UAV network. The primary objective of this study is to demonstrate the superior performance of the proposed framework in comparison to traditional communication methods such as MQTT, Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) socket-based communication, and Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP). Key performance metrics such as inter-process time interval, total completion time, jitter, and Age of Information (AoI) are evaluated to substantiate these improvements. Experimental results confirm that the MQTT-based framework significantly enhances real-time update capabilities, reduces latency, and improves overall network efficiency. These findings suggest that the proposed framework is a viable solution for enabling low-latency digital twins in large-scale UAV networks.
Keywords: AoI; CMQC; Digital twin; Large UAV; Low latency; MQTT; Socket communications

Mona Kumari, Maheswari Prasad Singh, Amit Kumar Singh,
A latency sensitive and agile IIoT architecture with optimized edge node selection and task scheduling,
Digital Communications and Networks,
2025,
,
ISSN 2352-8648,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dcan.2025.04.012.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352864825000483)
Abstract: The Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) has revolutionized conventional manufacturing industries by improving control, monitoring, and management, resulting in increased agility and long-term sustainability.The demand for processing and storage resources increases as the number of IoT devices and the data they generate increases. Cloud computing often serves these needs, but in certain scenarios, real-time data processing near the source is necessary to guarantee low latency, minimize bandwidth usage, and enhance data security. This work proposes a novel edge computing-based IIoT architecture for delay-sensitive monitoring and control in manufacturing industries.In contrast to previous work, this work is designed to enhance system performance by ensuring the availability of edge nodes and distributing task execution loads evenly across multiple edge computing nodes. The proposed architecture is further optimized for efficient allocation of resources and scheduling of tasks by the addition of a task scheduling algorithm by using Round Trip Time (RTT) and Resource Logger (RL). In an effort to optimize the response time of both the complete system and individual Device Nodes (DN), the work also considers the deployment of heterogeneous Edge Nodes (EN). The evaluation results show that the proposed architecture reduces the communication delay and overhead by 88.28% compared to the traditional cloud-based approach and 12.32% compared to the previously proposed methods ATS-FOA and RBEC/PENB, respectively, for executing IIoT applications. The proposed Resource Logger, Round Trip Time-Based Edge Node Selection (RLRTT-ESA), and task scheduling algorithms further improved the total application response time by 47.25% in comparison to the previously proposed methods ATS-FOA and RBEC/PENB, respectively.
Keywords: IoT; IIoT; Edge computing; Delay sensitive; RTT; Load balancing; RL
